For the past year, a lot of the interviews
that I've done have been focused on that.
And what I've learned is that almost every
single design system subculture that
I've been able to talk with, has
identified one of the left side, right?
One of the left side,
they're internally oriented.
And that's that makes sense
when you think about it, right,
because the design system is
an internal thing, right?
It's most of the time,
not always, but most of the time,
it's something we use internally, so
we make decisions here internally, right?
We're thinking about the impact that has
on our organization, not the market.
So that means most design
systems subcultures
are either collaborative or control.
That first type, the designs of
the design system subcultures falls
into that top left which
we called collaborative.
They're also focused on the long-term
success of the system and the company.
I hear them say things kind of like this.
I believe the scope of my work cannot be
accomplished in any way other than to
partner with teams who
have caught this vision.
Okay, so that's kind of one mentality
that I hear from a design system lead.
And that cross-team collaborative
perspective means the systems they build
tend to be enabling
instead of restrictive.
And the other type, the other primary
type of design system culture is found
in that lower left quadrant.
And we know they value doing things right,
they're focused on incremental
improvements over time.
And these cultures are driven by
inconsistency in their products many
times.
So, here's the kind of things
that I might hear them say.
My product team's having
created consistency, so
I'm here to make sure that they do,
[LAUGH] right?
So, it's a very different perspective,
right?
And neither of these is actually right,
neither of these is wrong,
they're just different, but there are
healthy and unhealthy versions of each.
So the spectrum from collaborative
to controlling along that left side,
I've turned it on its side here.
But that helps us understand how
these two cultural types can
sort of identify what's
really healthy behavior, and
at the extreme ends of this is
where we find unhealthy behaviors.
So let's take a look at just a few
characteristics of design system teams,
and I'll show you how they fall either
into the healthy or unhealthy spectrum.
And you can follow along with this and
imagine how is it that your system
team is operating and
see sort of where you fit here.
So let's start with
the idea of prioritization.
So in other words, just like how does
your design system team make decisions
about what to prioritize
in the system itself?
Well, on the healthy collaborative
quadrant, what we find is that they
are primarily basing their prioritization
on the needs of their subscribers, right?
So this is what we've
talked about with engaging.
They're getting to know those folks,
they're learning from them,
and they're making decisions about
what should go into the system based
on the needs of those subscribers.
Primarily, on the controlling side,
it's more about leadership, right?
So this is based on
the organizational needs.
So maybe they're being told like, hey,
look, we gotta address these problems,
so now that is filtering
into their decision making.
They're saying
the organization needs this,
I'm gonna mostly make my priority
decisions based on that bigger picture
need rather than on the needs of
individual independent subscribers.
Now you can take either
of these things too far.
So on the collaborative side if we go
too far, that's where you're trying
to prioritize everybody's needs, right,
that means you're gonna serve nobody.
Well, it's impossible to do that.
And the opposite is true on
the unhealthy side of control.
This is where you're ignoring
input from your subscribers, and
you're also gonna serve nobody well,
because you're essentially guessing
at what you're building, right?
So those two extreme ends represent
the unhealthy versions of
a collaborative and
a controlling subculture.
So let's look at another characteristic.
Let's talk about adoption.
We spent a lot of time talking about
how we can define adoption groups,
established the adoption path,
the metrics, all of that stuff.
But let's think a little bit about how
do we drive adoption of a design system?
So on the healthy collaborative side, we
see this primarily driven by relationship.
In other words, you're getting to know the
people, the people that you want to use
the system, and you sit down with them,
and you may be having a cup of coffee, and
you're just talking them through
what it's gonna be like.
It's really like we do this together.
On the controlling side,
it's primarily driven by incentive.
And what I mean by that is the design
system team is often talking to the bosses
of the people that want
to use the system and
they say, let's make this
part of their goals, right?
So now we say, hey,
if you want to do well as your job,
as a product designer, you need to
be using the design system, right?
That's top-down saying
this is incentive driven.
Now we can take either
of these too far again.
So on the adoption side,
an unhealthy characteristic for
adoption on the collaborative side
is that it's unsustainable over
support through the adoption process.
This is interesting,
it's like what I think I'm getting
at here is that you can't do it for them.
This is kind of the whole teach somebody
to fish versus giving them a fish or
whatever.
All we're trying to do here is establish
how we will interact with each other from
this point forward.
So if you come in right away,
and you just do it for them, you're
setting their expectations for what it's
gonna be like to work with your design
system team from that point forward.
And that's not sustainable.
[LAUGH] So what you need to
do is balance that, right?
You can be driven by relationship, but
they still have to do some
of that work themselves.
And the opposite side, we can have
an unhealthy version of adaption
control where it's non-support, right?
So essentially, we're saying, look,
all the information you need is in the doc
site, go figure it out,
right, also not healthy.
[LAUGH] So
we need to balance these things, right?
We got to come in from those extremes to
find the healthy part of the spectrum.
So another characteristic we could
consider is the idea of extension.
And when I say that,
what I mean is the system's not
gonna do everything perfectly.
So when a subscriber gets, maybe
they're pulling in a new component and
they recognize it actually needs to do
something a little bit beyond what you do.
So they're gonna extend it in some way,
they're gonna make a change to the system.
So how are they supposed to proceed?
So on the healthy collaborative side,
there's an intentional flexibility
kinda built into the system, right,
extension of the system is encouraged.
In fact, we've documented
how that should happen, and
we have processes for
bringing that work back in, perhaps.
On the healthy control side,
it's necessarily restrictive.
In other words, extension of
the system is discouraged, right?
So we're saying what we need
from you is to use the system.
If there's something you really needed to
do that it doesn't, come talk to us and
we'll make a plan.
We'll create an exception for you, but
the hope is that you can use what's there.
The very different perspectives,
both of those can be healthy, right?
If we take the collaborative too far,
we get this extreme flexibility, right,
where extension of the system is overused,
and teams are just pulling stuff in and
changing it without thinking
about the implications of that.
And on the opposite side, an extreme
restriction where it's literally just
forbidden, you cannot do it, period.
Figure out how to do this.
So again,
those extreme ends are unhealthy, but
there is a healthy balance
in the center here.
And we'll just discuss one more
characteristic which is just change
management.
So it's like we're asking folks to
make a lot of changes over time,
and so how do you navigate that change
is kind of what we're getting at here.
So on the healthy collaborative side,
if the system is primarily is adapting
to the workflows of your subscribers,
that can be okay, right?
You're driving a lot of
your decisions here,
you're primarily thinking about
the workflows that they need,
making it simple for
them to make that shift, that change.
On the control side,
your subscribers are being asked to
adapt to the approach of the system.
So it's a little bit more restrictive and
it's saying this is
the way we want to work.
We're looking for
less autonomy in our product teams,
and instead, we want to encourage more
consistency in our behaviors, right?
Both of those can be healthy.
On the extreme ends, of course,
you can have, too much accommodation for
subscriber workflows, which leads
you to this decision paralysis.
We can't get anything launched because
we're trying to plan for everybody here.
I don't wanna make it hard for anyone,
it's just a really tricky situation.
The unhealthy control is
where we just have, again,
zero lack of accommodation for
the subscriber workflows.
Which honestly means they
just don't wanna use it and
it requires you to end up
reworking a lot of what you do.
[LAUGH] So again, what we're looking for
is the balance, right?
So the competing values framework is
nice because it gives us an overview
of the kinds of organizational
cultures that we can expect to see.
And we know now that most of our design
system teams fall on that left side,
so they're internally oriented.